So it's time to start the project from scratch.
We're going to create it in the day 14 folder and we're going to name it work attendance p y and we're
all set to go.
This project is going to look at anyone who stands in front of the live webcam and compare them with
a list of people it is stored in a database.
This database will be a list of controlled images to know if the person you see on the camera is one
of the people who work in our company so we can record the time of entry or say, you can't enter because
you don't work here.
So let's import everything we need initially.
We're going to import CV two and we're going to import face recognition as FR.
And now we have to reproduce the steps that we learned to do in the previous training, which are load
the images that are going to be used as controls.
Transfer them to our GB.
Locate the faces.
ENCODE them and mark them with a rectangle.
If we're able to do this for each image, it would be very long and repetitive, especially if we had
a database of 100 employees.
Imagine what that code would be.
Therefore, we have to learn how to create a loop that does all this with each of the images it finds
in a list that codes them, and then finally searches within those images for the person it sees in
the camera.
I'm going to show you the pictures of my employees.
I've already loaded into this employees folder.
Some of the people who may look familiar to you, they are called Cosmo, Kramer, Elaine, Venus.
Well, this third guy is your new best friend.
And then here comes George and Jerry.
Any resemblance to reality is purely coincidental.
These are the images.
So I'm going to leave them in the lesson resources for you to use if you want.
Or you can use five pictures of your friends or whatever you want.
I recommend that you include a picture of yourself as you need at least one of the people in the pictures
to be able to stand in front of the camera to find a match.
So we're going to ask the program to look for this folder and see how many images it has and to encode
them so that we're also going to need to import OS, which we've used before in the course.
And you know, it's used to work with an operating system.
So we're going to create database and we're going to establish a path that is to say a variable that
contains the name of the folder employees so that it can find our images there.
We're also going to create a list of my images.
It will initially be empty.
It will be created each time the program is run dynamically.
We are also going to get the names of the pictures, the names that appear in the name of the picture
before JPEG.
So what for?
So that when we search the results, we can also display those names and tell who has been recognized.
So we're also going to create a list of called employee names, and it's going to be the same as an
empty list, which is going to be built dynamically.
So if at some point you fire or hire new staff, you won't need to load or modify the items in the list.
It's going to be dynamically modified.
So the first thing I'm going to do is going to take all the names of all the photos that I find in the
employees folder.
And I'm going to do this through another variable called employee list and it's going to be equal to
O's dot list d i and it's going to be set to path.
That's how it's going to find the employees that I have here.
So now when it finds them, those names are going to include the ending JPEG.
So that we're going to have to do something to remove that ending so that we're left with pure names.
So to see what we've got so far, we're going to temporarily print employee list on the screen and we're
going to run it with the steps that we know.
And here we get a list which contains Cosmo, Kramer, JPEG, Elaine, Venus, JPEG, and so forth.
For now, it's just the list with the names of the pictures.
And the next thing is to use those names to be able to import the images one by one.
So we remove the print and now we're going to create a for loop for each name that it finds inside the
employee list.
We're going to create an internal variable called this image is going to be equal to an object.
cv2 to which we apply the method i m read for image read.
So this asks us to pass it the name of the image it has to read.
Going to construct that name with the path dynamically because it's going to be different for each of
the images.
It's going to be a literal string containing first the path, then a slash, and then the name, which
in each iteration name is going to be one of the elements of the employee list.
This means at the end of each loop, the variable.
This image will contain the complete path to each of the images in the list so that this value is not
lost because in each iteration the variable is going to be rewritten.
We're going to call my images, which is the empty list we created at the beginning, and in each iteration
we're going to use append to add the value of the image to this list.
And at the end of the loop, the variable my images will contain all the paths of all the images.
Now we're also going to complete the list employee names with the method append, store all the names
of the images.
But be careful because we do not want to store the names as they are because that would include the
JPEG extension.
So we have to do something to build them in another way.
We do it with o's dot path, dot splint text.
And inside its parenthesis we will call name as it's index zero.
This strategy allows us to support the components of the file name and to take only the index zero which
the name of the file before the dot.
So this loop will allow us to load both lists.
The my images list and the employee's name list.
Now we're going to print provisionally employee names to see what it shows us.
And what we see here are the names of our employees without the JPEG at the ending.
And so now we have a list that is going to allow us to put those names on the screen.
The next thing would be encode images, and we're going to create a function to do this, which we define
as ENCODE.
And it's going to ask us to pass it, of course, the images that we want to encode.
So inside this loop, we're going to make some clarifications to understand each one of the steps.
First, we're going to create new list.
And it's going to be called encoded list.
Which is not going to be the same as the previous one, but it will have the same images, but this
time encoded.
So this list is going to be initialized as empty.
Then we're going to convert all images to our G.B. and here we will make a loop, which is going to
perform an action for each image that it finds inside images, which is the list of images that we are
going to pass to it when calling this function.
Well, then for each image we're going to make image to be equal to c v to object, which we're going
to apply the method c v t color.
And there we're going to pass the image to which we will apply this method, which will be the image
of each iteration and the color coding that will be applied, which will be v two dot color.
EEG are two GB with this, each of the images would be digitized with the type of color we need.
So the next step is to locate where the face is within each image.
Remember that we call this encode.
So let's make a new variable called encoded, which is equal to f r dot face encoding.
So you might remember that here we have to pass it to the image we want to encode, which is going to
be the image at it's index zero.
Then we're going to add to the list because it's already going to be transformed.
Then to encode it list, we're going to add with append whatever there is in this variable encoded that
we have just processed.
So this list is going to be filled with images that are already encoded.
And finally, because this is a function, we have to return something.
And since it's received an encoded list, what it's going to do is it's going to return the encoded
list.
The code is return encoded list.
So we're done with the function.
Now we're going to call this function, but remember that as this function is going to return a list,
we have to make the call inside a variable in order to store it.
So we're going to create encoded employee list.
And although you have seen that we have used many variables, this is the important one.
This is the list that all the photos that are already encoded and converted to the GB system.
The list is going to be the same as that.
What they encode function returns and we're going to pass it.
Whatever is in my images, which is the list that we have created in this loop with all the JPEG images
that we had at the beginning.
So now in order to see on screen what we have and to check that everything is okay, we're going to
print out the length of the encoded employee list.
Should be a length of five images because we have five pictures loaded in there.
So here it's processing it.
We see the names and it hasn't finished returning the code yet.
And here it's going to say it's five pictures.
Okay.
So so far, we've managed to create a list of employee images in a dynamic way because it's going to
generate itself.
You just need to add or remove images from the folder and the system will take care of transforming
them into a list, storing their names and determining how many there are.
But this was just for show purposes.
Let's go to the next lesson to perform the next step of our project.